# Code Descriptions

1)The first C++ program is based on what I learned in my analysis of algorithms class. It uses a greedy approach to find the optimal schedule.

2)The second code is a Java program based on a project I originally did for CISC 3130 Data Structures. What I changed is that I used array lists instead of an array. Another change I made is how I read the data. In the original program If there was a problem with reading the data I immediately read in the next data using a while loop until there were no problems. Looking back on it I do not know why I chose that solution as it seems convoluted. Instead I changed it so that if there is an error I go to the next line and if not I convert the data.


3)The third program is my selection sort code. I got this idea from my analysis of algorithms class. During last semester an idea came to be that what if I could make the selection sort more efficient by finding the max and min during each iteration of the loop. My professor told me that would not work though because while I will loop half as much I will still be doing double the comparrisons. When we learned about finding max and min with tournaments though I found the solution. Since using tournaments has less compares than finding each individually then some efficiency would be gained. I told the professor about this and he thought it was an interesting idea. With this lab I was given the oppurtunity to try it out. The debugging of this code was a bit difficult as my sort is more complicated than the normal selection sort. It did take some time of me going through the code to figure out my errors. To me it seems my sort is easier for a human to do than a computer becuase we know to not make silly mistakes. One example of this was double swapping. Since in my sort I am moving 2 items in each iteration that means it is important to know where they are but there might be a better way to account for this. For example let us say we want to sort 9,1. since I want to move the smallest to the first position i would get 1,9. Now the array is sorted. But I also want to move the biggest number to the last spot. Since I would have only stored the index numbers or the values moving or swapping again would double swap leaving us with what we started with or overwrite. This means that I needed to add extra comparrisons to account for these. At first I thought this would mean that my sort would always be less efficient than normal selection sort. for a small number of values in the array this is true but for larger array sizes my sort performed better. Overall I am not sure if the added complexity justifies the improvement in efficiency but I will say this was an interesting exercise.


4)The fourth program was my attempt at creating a program that could solve the farmer, fox, goose and grain problem. To me this was an interesting lesson in the difference between a human and a computer. Before I got the program to work one problem I kept running into was that the program would keep selecting the same legal move over and over again. For example the correct first move in the problem is to take the goose across the river. My program would do this. But then it would take the goose again back over leaving us at the start. To solve this problem I realized that the program needed knowlegde of what it just did. Most people would know that the next correct solution would not be to undo the progress that was just made. So to fix this I made it so that the program would not select an object that it had just moved. With this knowledge it was able to solve the problem. To me this was interesting as it told me about the information that we take for granted but is integral to finding a solution.


5)The fifth program is a simple website that asks you for a type of recyclable item and a zip code and asks you for a zipcode and will then let you know about any dropoff locations in that zipcode. This program is one that I came up with during my boot campl. While very simple I am proud of it. I had a lot of difficulties with using the new technologies they taught us at the boot camp so just making something that works as intended was useful to me. One problem that I had was uploading the code for it properly to github. Because of the nature of the files it did not seem like I could upload it properly to this repsoitory so I just uploaded one of the folders. A proper  full version of the code can be found at
https://github.com/HA-TTP-Work/garbotestrun 

This was the account that I used for my boot camo projects.
I will certainly need to practice more on react and java script as well as HTML.
